Update faqs 20250922 Geographic metadata FAQ & fix typos (#14)
MIxS-MInAS/MIxS-MInAS.github.io: docs/documentation/user-documentation/faq.md

_TODO_

## How to fill in geographic metadata
There are two primary ways of providing the geographic location of a sample with existing MIxS terms: `Geographic location (latitude and longitude)` and `Geographic location (country and/or sea,region)`. Both of these are required fields and we suggest filling in at both terms with as precise information as possible. There is also a third term that is specific to the ancient DNA MInAS checklist, `Name of site or location where sample was originated`, which should be used to record the name of the archaeological/palaeontological site.

-   **Geographic location (latitude and longitude)**:

>     -  The MIxS term [`Geographic location (latitude and longitude)`](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0000009/) is used to record the coordinates in decimal degrees, limited to 8 decimal points and separated by a single whitespace (e.g. `-39.27774231 175.61028236`). While limited to 8 decimal points, you will rarely need such precision, unless you've extracted DNA from a [specific grain of sand](https://xkcd.com/2170/). See [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decimal_degrees) to guide your decision on the appropriate level of precision to report.

Reviewer: The grain of sand thing should maybe go as a footnote using `[^1]` and `[^1]: description` syntax

_TODO_

## How to fill in geographic metadata
There are two primary ways of providing the geographic location of a sample with existing MIxS terms: `Geographic location (latitude and longitude)` and `Geographic location (country and/or sea,region)`. 
These fields are used to record the museum location if the specimen originated from a museum, because this is where the sampling with intention to sequence occurred (see the ENA [FAQs](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/faq/spatiotemporal-metadata.html#i-have-an-ancient-dna-sample-how-do-i-provide-the-spatiotemporal-information-for-my-sample-which-location-and-date-should-be-reported)). 

> If the specimen was excavated from an archaeological/palaeontlogical site with the intention to sequence (without first going via a museum) then the site information goes in the above terms.

Reviewer: I would flip this:

1. By default we assume samples were sampled directly from the environment/burial context
2. How IF the samples have been removed from their natural environment/burial context and are stored and/or were sampled from a collection or archive, the ENA guidance is that these geographic information terms should represent the collection or archive. 

i.e., the collections is the _exception_ not the rule

> If the specimen was excavated from an archaeological/palaeontlogical site with the intention to sequence (without first going via a museum) then the site information goes in the above terms.

Author: ```suggestion
These fields are used to record the location that a specimen/sample was collected from with the intention of sequencing.

If the specimen was excavated from an archaeological/palaeontlogical site with the intention to sequence (without first going via a museum) then the site information goes in the above terms.

However, if the specimen was excavated/retrieved and then deposited in a museum (or other) collection and only after that was a sample taken explicitly for sequencing, then the locality details of the museum/collection must be recorded in these fields! See the ENA [FAQs](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/faq/spatiotemporal-metadata.html#i-have-an-ancient-dna-sample-how-do-i-provide-the-spatiotemporal-information-for-my-sample-which-location-and-date-should-be-reported) regarding this. 

```

> Both of these are required fields and we suggest filling in at both terms with as precise information as possible. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both of these are required fields and we suggest filling in at both the coordinate and location name terms with as precise information as possible. 
```

If the specimen is from a museum, we still need to record the original location of the specimen, which is the site from which it was excavated. 
In this case, use the MInAS site terms: 

>     -    _insert site_location term_

Author: ```suggestion
    -    [original site location](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001357/)
```

>     -    _insert site_lat_lon tarm_

Author: ```suggestion
    - [original geographic location (latitude)](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001358/)
    - [original geographic location (longitude)](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001359/)
    
```

    -    `Name of site or location where sample was originated`, which should be used to record the name of the archaeological/palaeontological site.

> -   **Geographic location (latitude and longitude)**:

Author: ```suggestion
-   **Some general tips**:
```

>     -  The MIxS term [`Geographic location (latitude and longitude)`](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0000009/) is used to record the coordinates in decimal degrees, limited to 8 decimal points and separated by a single whitespace (e.g. `-39.27774231 175.61028236`). While limited to 8 decimal points, you will rarely need such precision[^1]. See [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decimal_degrees) to guide your decision on the appropriate level of precision to report.

Author: ```suggestion
    -  Coordinates reported in decimal degrees are limited to 8 decimal points and _separated by a single whitespace_ (e.g. `-39.27774231 175.61028236`). 
    - While limited to 8 decimal points, you will rarely need such precision[^1]. See [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decimal_degrees) to guide your decision on the appropriate level of precision to report.
```

[^1]: Unless you've extracted DNA from a [specific grain of sand](https://xkcd.com/2170/)
    -  If a site is protected or its location information is sensitive, record the geographic location to the finest level possible without compromising the site's location. For example, using the coordinates of a nearby town or landmark with reduced precision of the coordinates: `-39.2 175.5`.

-   **Geographic location (country and/or sea,region)**:
    -   The MIxS term [`Geographic location (country and/or sea,region)`](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0000010/) is used to record this information in the format `Country:Region, Locality`.

>     -   Country or sea names should be chosen from the [INSDC country list](http://insdc.org/country.html), or the [GAZ ontology](http://purl.bioontology.org/ontology/GAZ)

Author: ```suggestion

```

>     -   This term is not intended for the archaeological/palaeontological/ecological site name (if relevant). Instead, include the site name under the MInAS-specific term `Name of site or location where sample was originated`.

Author: ```suggestion
    -   This term is not intended for the archaeological/palaeontological/ecological site name (if relevant). Instead, include the site name under the MInAS-specific term `Name of site or location where sample was originated`, see [here](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001356/).
```

>     -   This term is not intended for the archaeological/palaeontological/ecological site name (if relevant). Instead, include the site name under the MInAS-specific term `Name of site or location where sample was originated`.

Author: ```suggestion
    -   The term `Geographic location (country and/or sea,region)` is not intended for the archaeological/palaeontological/ecological site name (if relevant). Instead, include the site name under the MInAS-specific term `Name of site or location where sample was originated`.
```

Both of these are required fields and we suggest filling in at both terms with as precise information as possible. 

If the specimen is from a museum, we still need to record the original location of the specimen, which is the site from which it was excavated (e.g. burial site or natural environment prior archiving in a museum). 
In this case, use the MInAS site terms: 
    -    [original site location](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001357/)
    - [original geographic location (latitude)](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001358/)
    - [original geographic location (longitude)](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001359/)
    
    -   `orig_site_loc`, which should be the local geographic name (e.g. closest town/region/named area on a map)
    -   `orig_site_lat`, which should be the latitude of the original burial site/natural environment 
    -  `orig_site_lon`, which should be the longitude of the original burial site/natural environment

>     -   `orig_site_name`, which should be used to record the name of the archaeological/palaeontological site.

Author: ```suggestion
    - [original geographic location (latitude)](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001358/), which should be the latitude of the original burial site/natural environment
    - [original geographic location (longitude)](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001359/), which should be the longitude of the original burial site/natural environment
    - [original site location](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001357/), which should be the local geographic name (e.g. closest town/region/named area on a map)
    - [name of site or location where sample originated](https://genomicsstandardsconsortium.github.io/mixs/0001356/), which should be used to record the name of the archaeological/palaeontological site.
```
